a few other knowns of ox all Astra and
chances are somebody you do know will up
as it's been a long-standing servant on
British roads for more than 30 years
this sixth generation version is part
British designs and also British built
but whereas previous incarnations
weren't considered to be that desirable
this one shaping up to be surprisingly
appealing there are a lot of handsome
small family hatchbacks on sale these
days but the Astra offers a level of
sophistication we haven't really seen
from Vauxhall before the company calls
the design language sculptural artistry
and while that may sound a little bit
fluffy you can see that the car's
proportions and stance enables it to be
both poised yet offers still a very
practical package voxels now signature
side blade graphic that appears in most
of the range is also visible here in the
doors the taillights and even these very
classy daytime running front LED
headlights and it looks good however if
you fancy a bit more presence the
three-door Astra GTC is lower wider less
Doria and quite a looker
owners of any previous generation Astra
will consider this cabin to be a massive
step up and perceived quality it feels
like a mini insignia in here with loads
of storage space an excellent driving
position and a steering wheel that's
adjustable for both rake and reach the
side play graphic has been designed into
these door grabs which is a nice detail
and the cabin also has this red under
lighting which gives it a very classy
ambience there are a few niggles the
buttons in this center console for
example may have a tactile quality but
we prefer a cleaner less confusing setup
and although there's loads of soft touch
plastics to talk of they don't really
feel as sumptuous as you'd want them to
also lower spec versions get this really
poorly located manual hand brake as
opposed to an electronic parking brake
so every time you use it you wrap your
knuckles in the back the seats have
enough leg and Headroom for three
passengers and you've also got ISOFIX
point for fit and child car seats the
boot is bigger than a Ford Focus and
features a flex floor system that allows
you to adjust the level of the boot
floor between here so there's no load
lip for loading larger items to down
here for extra storage
on the road the Astra isn't the final
word in handling finesse the steering is
slow witted and a little bit numb so it
isn't a Ford Focus or Volkswagen Golf
for that matter the Astra GTC gets much
closer dynamically as it features a
completely different chassis setup so
look there if you have two more
engagement I said the five-door does
offer a really impressive high-speed
ride quality with a reassuring stability
that makes it an excellent motorway
companion in terms of engines there's a
kaleidoscopic range to choose from the
1.4 liter turbocharged petrol unit that
provides a really great balance of
performance and economy providing you
don't go to mental on the miles right
through to the very popular one point
seven liter CDTI diesel now although
they deliver some really impressive
running costs the do sound a little bit
gruff and they just don't have the same
level of mechanical refinement you get
from the equivalents Ford or Volkswagen
units sorry Vauxhall
this sixth generation Astra is
undoubtedly the best small family
hatchback the Vauxhall has ever built
it's quietly impressive in almost all
areas the trouble is it doesn't have the
prestige of the Volkswagen Golf or the
dynamic Flair of the Ford Focus that
pretty much sums it up really this is a
good car and a category full of
brilliant runs